<h1> Humanities And Sciences can Coexist in Harmony </h1>

The idea that the humanities and sciences cannot coexist or be used in conjunction is absurd. While it may seem like the two are fundamentally different, they have been used together successfully for several years and the existence of digital humanities as a discipline that is cropping up in various universities is a testament to that. The name switch from “humanities computing” to digital humanities was the beginning of the melding of the two disciplines and proof that the two can exist in harmony. While the digital humanities has become an established discipline in Universities, the many seem unsure of the discipline’s definition because it “denotes no set of widely shared computational methods that contributes to the work of interpretation [and] no agreed-upon norms or received genres for digital publication” (Alvarado) meaning it is hard to explain to those unfamiliar with it.
Coupling the humanities with science is a very effective method of doing more in-depth research on various subjects, such as using quantitative data to analyze literary texts or using computational devices that can “[treat] code itself as text, seeking to apply principles of interpretation theory (hermeneutics, structuralism, etc.) to programming languages and, one hopes, markup languages as well.” (Alvarado) The desire to apply humanities and literary lenses to computational data is proof that the two disciplines thrive off of each other.
As Kirschenbaum points out in his article about the digital humanities, the discipline tends to reside in the English department even though it is highly technologically based. This is due to the hospitable nature of literary departments in addition to the use of computers to analyze text on a large scale. Text analysis is -behind numeric input- the most tractable data type for computers to manipulate and “there is a long tradition of text-based data processing that was within the capabilities of even some of the earliest computer systems and that has for decades fed research in fields like stylistics, linguistics, and author attribution studies.” (Kirschenbaum). The usage of computers for textual analysis through computers since near the conception of the text proves the vitalness of subjects such as the humanities and sciences coexisting.
Because of the nature of digital humanities and programs such as Interactive Arts and Science having such a broad variety of concentrations that students can specialize in, there are cases where they may require assistance from either computational experts or humanities individuals to get a clearer scope on what they are working on meaning the two must work well together in order to reach the final goal.
Digital humanities scholars have noticed the need for “(1) ...sustainable software development projects that are specifically focused on humanities research problems, and (2) the need for graduate and undergraduate training models that address the trans-disciplinary nature of digital and computational humanities research” (Peirson, Damerow & Laubichler). The addition of these aspects to digital humanities programs would provide a seamless connection between the digital humanities and humanities-based projects but also, acknowledge the fundamental nature of digital humanities covering both humanities subjects and computational studies but both.

<!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 573px; height: 440px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Cirrus/?corpus=2e6f5c197f4c7cf438bf695cad755dfa'></iframe>

The above text analysis tool demonstrates the relation between the digital humanities and other disciplines. Analyzing the data one is able to see that the word digital is the largest on the graph, appearing 1.6x more than the second-largest word which is humanities. This shows the transdisciplinary nature of the digital humanities, combining computational aspects with humanities disciplines. The repeated usage of the word digital displays that there is an ability for the two aspects to exist separately as well as together and allows the word to be applied to other aspects of the discipline.  
Since its inception, the digital humanities has matured into something that “[incorporates] elements of some of the most advanced forms of technical endeavour, including natural language processing, statistical computing, corpus linguistics, data mining, and artificial intelligence.” (Ramsay) This proves that the digital humanities is a very diverse field, with many different up and coming technological advances that can be used in a variety of different ways, encompassing both aspects of the humanities and sciences as well as combining them in such a way that they complement each other and create new technological advancements that would not take place without their coexistence. The digital humanities simply work to combine them in such a way that those in the field are able to provide an in-depth understanding of the concepts that allow these technologies to exist and why the humanities portion is fundamental to gaining an understanding of said technologies.
In conclusion, the combination of the sciences and humanities of the utmost importance to programs like Interactive Arts and Science, without the combination programs such as the aforementioned would not exist. And there would be a great difficulty in analyzing texts in a quantitative format and technological advancements made through the field would not be able to exist based on that belief. The combination of the sciences and humanities is what makes the discipline what it is.


<h2> Works cited</h2>

Alvarado, R. C. (n.d.). Debates in the Digital Humanities: Blog Post: The Digital Humanities Situation. Retrieved March 8, 2020, from https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-88c11800-9446-469b-a3be-3fdb36bfbd1e/section/c513af64-8f99-4e02-9869-babc1cecc451#p1b1

Kirschenbaum, M. G. (2011, January 22). Debates in the Digital Humanities: Chapter 1: What Is Digital Humanities and What's It Doing in English Departments? Retrieved March 8, 2020, from https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-88c11800-9446-469b-a3be-3fdb36bfbd1e/section/f5640d43-b8eb-4d49-bc4b-eb31a16f3d06

Peirson, B. R. E., Damerow, J., & Laubichler, M. (2016). Software development & trans-disciplinary training at the interface of digital humanities and computer science. Digital Studies/Le Champ Numérique, 0(0). doi: 10.16995/dscn.17

Ramsay, S. (2012). Reading machines: toward an algorithmic criticism (pp. 1–17). Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press.
